In this reservoir, you can find two main jupyter notebooks referring to different analyses performed through the cooperation between the Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Japan, the Faculty of Psychology, National University of Mexico, Mexico, the Research Center for Global Mental Health, National Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Mexico, the Ministry of Health, Mental Health National Council, Mexico, the Ministry of Health, "Hospital General Dr. Manuel Gea González", Mexico, and the Ministry of Health, Psychiatric Services, Mexico in regards to the mental health of Mexico City during the first year of the pandemic, as well as under relevant emergency events on the following years, and a text file with a central description of all files and location.

The file called "Mental_health_analysis_main_file" is complementary to "The Impacts of Pandemics, News, and Natural Hazards on Mental Health Support Systems in Mexico City During the First Year of COVID-19: An Analysis of Variations in Acute Stress, Depression, and Anxiety Symptoms".

The file "Database_machine_learning_applications" is part of a Data article called "Machine learning-ready mental health datasets for evaluating psychological effects and system needs in Mexico City during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic" prepared to contribute to the understanding of the databases and their fitness for machine-learning applications.

The file "File_structure_and_central_content" provides a general description of the files' location within the reservoir and a brief description of their contents, intended to serve as a guide for the user.

The information retrieval was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and it is also held following the Code of Conduct for Scientists established by the Science Council of Japan. The database from the  "Screening tool for mental health" was constructed following the protocol approved by the Ethics Committee from the Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz (Approval Code: CEI/C/010/2020) and the Faculty of Psychology (UNAM), where Informed consent was obtained from all subjects. The up-to-date questionnaire and the statement for the protection of personal information can be accessed at https://misalud.unam.mx/. But the questionnaire as it was when the dataset was retrieved can be found in the "Translation of questions, answers and encoding" file.
